Agent-based model of COVID.

Collaborative Project by: Braedon Potts, George Gurney, Caleb Sandum, Shawn Weng, and Rohit Chadalavada

Abstract: Together, our group sought to answer: how could we utilize agent-based modeling to realistically simulate the spread of COVID? We used an environment board to visualize this. Upon reviewing this code, we decided to narrow the scope of our simulation to the Lansing Metro area, which we defined as a rectangle of land encompassing land in Ingham, Clinton, and Eaton. To represent this, we used a numpy array, where each entry represented an actual location in the Lansing area. 0’s represent rural/sparsely populated areas, 1 represents densely populated areas, 2 are universities, and 4 represent highways. All of these different areas allow us to simulate movement in a more realistic way. 0,1, and 2 allow us to make the agents frequent more densely populated places. Roads serve as major transportation for people within the bounds. In order to model the passing of time, we have timesteps, where each possible event may happen under. Viruses may mutate, people may move, people may get infected and die, or even get a vaccine. In order to model the virus and its spread, we used 3 parameters to model infection rates. Our model involved two classes: person and virus. These stored the attributes mentioned. Due to computational restraints, we use one agent to represent many people. First, each agent/person had their own personal antibodies, which were assigned based on what county they originated in. This number came from the actual infection rates from these counties. We also had an infection rate associated with the virus itself, which can increase due to random mutation. Lastly, agents could receive a vaccine, which reduced the total infection rate. When two agents come in contact, all of these rates are combined with: virus_rate*(1-vaccine_effectiveness)*(1-antibodies). Since the vaccine effectiveness rates are so high, they nearly eliminate the odds of infection for vaccinated agents. We also modeled virus mortality. Each timestep, each infected person has a chance to die. If this occurs, they will be removed from the board. Upon completion of our model, we were pleased to successfully model virus spread in Lansing. We tracked the totals of healthy, infected, dead, and vaccinated individuals throughout the simulation and it followed a realistic pattern. To expand upon our project, we could expand the scope of the map, or account for people leaving & entering the simulated space. The code could also be optimized to handle higher amounts of agents, which would more closely resemble reality.
